Import required libraries
Exercise 1. Import numpy as np and see the version
Exercise 2. How to create a 1D array?
Exercise 3. How to create a boolean array?
Exercise 4. How to extract items that satisfy a given condition from 1D array?
Exercise 5. How to replace items that satisfy a condition with another value in numpy array?
Exercise 6. How to replace items that satisfy a condition without affecting the original array?
Exercise 7. How to reshape an array?
Exercise 8. How to stack two arrays vertically?
Exercise 9. How to stack two arrays horizontally?
Exercise 10. How to generate custom sequences in numpy without hardcoding?
Exercise 11. How to get the common items between two python numpy arrays?
Exercise 12. How to remove from one array those items that exist in another?
Exercise 13. How to get the positions where elements of two arrays match?
Exercise 14. How to extract all numbers between a given range from a numpy array?
Exercise 15. How to make a python function that handles scalars to work on numpy arrays?
Exercise 16. How to swap two columns in a 2d numpy array?
Exercise 17. How to swap two rows in a 2d numpy array?
Exercise 18. How to reverse the rows of a 2D array?
Exercise 19. How to reverse the columns of a 2D array?
Exercise 20. How to create a 2D array containing random floats between 5 and 10?
Exercise 21. How to print only 3 decimal places in python numpy array?
Exercise 22. How to pretty print a numpy array by suppressing the scientific notation (like 1e10)?
Exercise 23. How to limit the number of items printed in output of numpy array?
Exercise 24. How to print the full numpy array without truncating
Exercise 25. How to import a dataset with numbers and texts keeping the text intact in python numpy?
Exercise 26. How to extract a particular column from 1D array of tuples?
Exercise 27. How to convert a 1d array of tuples to a 2d numpy array?
Exercise 28. How to compute the mean, median, standard deviation of a numpy array?
Exercise 29. How to normalize an array so the values range exactly between 0 and 1?
Exercise 30. How to compute the softmax score?
Exercise 31. How to find the percentile scores of a numpy array?
Exercise 32. How to insert values at random positions in an array?
Exercise 33. How to find the position of missing values in numpy array?
Exercise 34. How to filter a numpy array based on two or more conditions?
Exercise 35. How to drop rows that contain a missing value from a numpy array?
Exercise 36. How to find the correlation between two columns of a numpy array?
Exercise 43. How to get the second largest value of an array when grouped by another array?
Exercise 44. How to sort a 2D array by a column
Exercise 45. How to find the most frequent value in a numpy array?
Exercise 46. How to find the position of the first occurrence of a value greater than a given value?
Exercise 47. How to replace all values greater than a given value to a given cutoff?
Exercise 48. How to get the positions of top n values from a numpy array?
Exercise 49. How to compute the row wise counts of all possible values in an array?
Exercise 50. How to convert an array of arrays into a flat 1d array?